### Intro

The year is 1940. The German Reich has achieved stunning success in its warmaking on the Western Front, and Fascist Italy did not want to miss out on the gains. On October 28, 1940, Italy would declare war on Greece.

### Statistics

Italy had not prepared enough for the war. Their front in Albania had 8 divisions, with 1 armored and 1 elite alpine division, organized under the XXV and XXVI Corps. The Greek Army consisted of 14 divisions, however they were dispersed throughout the entire nation. 4 infantry divisions and 2 brigades were on the Albanian border, 5 infantry divisions were on the Bulgarian border, and 5 divisions along with the cavalry division were in reserve. Their army divisions were triangular and held nearly 1.5 times the amount of infantry than the Italian divisions, with a bit more artillery and machine guns, however they had no tanks. Most of the equipment was still from the First World War, and most of it was from countries that were under Axis occupation such as France, Poland, or Belgium, meaning that they had limited supply of spare parts and ammunition. They were outnumbered in the sea and in the air.

### Italian offensive

The first phase of the war took place within the first few weeks. The coastal group moved south with the final aim of capturing Igoumenista. In the central area, the Siena division moved towards Filiates, while the Ferrara moved against Kalpiki, trying to capture Ioannina. In Pindus, the fast moving 3rd Alpine division aimed to capture the city of Metsovo, which would cut off the Greek forces in Epirus. The Alpine division covered 40 km of mountain terrain and captured Vovousa, but not Metsovo. On November 3, the spearhead was surrounded by the Greek Pindus detachment. The Alpine division requested reinforcements, which came, but were unable to reach the cut-off Italian forces and the division sustained heavy losses. The Italian air force also failed to attack to Greek forces, which helped the Greeks significantly. As the Greek reinforcements started moving in, the Alpine division managed to break out of the encirclement, but it had lost 1/5 of its force and retreated back to Korista. The next day, Samarina and Vovousa were recaptured by the Greeks. By the 13th, the entire frontier area was cleared of Italian units.
Further south, the 23rd and 51st infantry divisions and the 131st armored division moved to capture Kalpaki. They faced off against the single Greek 8th Infantry Division. Despite the numerical superiority, the Greek commander knew that the Italian superiority in men and armor was limited due to the mountains and the marshy terrain. Despite directives by the High Command, the Greek 8th Infantry Division concentrated the main bulk of his forces there, with the intention of giving an all-out battle. On the 28th of October, the Italians initated their offensives, with the 51st and 23rd infantry divisions spearheading the attack towards Kalpaki. The Greeks situated themselves in defensive positions on the hills, and successfully repelled attacks by the 23rd Infantry Division. The Italian attacks got bogged down in the rough terrain, and their armored tankettes and medium tanks were unable to cope with it, leaving the Italians unable to breach the Greek defensive line. A few days later, the Italian offensive was suspended. Near the coast, some Italian units made a slow advance and were able to secure a bridgehead over the Kalamas River, however, due to the inital Greek successes, they would go on the attack, and their forward positions would be pushed back.
